---
layout: post
title: 2018-03-22 Devlog 8
---

## Devlog 8

These devlogs are mostly point form and basically reflect how I think about things. They document both what I learned and ideas that cross my mind. I make lists because my thoughts are usually in complete chaos, and organising them like that is a way to convince myself that it all makes sense.

### Week 9: Devlog 8 (Mar 22, 2018)

This week, I workshopped my slides more. God, I’m so bad at this. I want to make my project fun, but I feel like I don’t have the artistic sensibilities to be able to do so, at least effectively. I want to make this project fun, but I’m not good at that. Not as good as I want to be, I guess. I’ve always struggled with this, I’m not an artistic person. I enjoy art so much. I spend most of my time listening to music. Honestly, if I can get away with listening to music as I work, I will. But, I struggle to create art myself. I guess you could say that because I write, and because writing is an artistic endeavour, that I do have some form of creativity. Yet, I feel like the form of writing I engage in has been carefully constructed to be more of a science than an art. This is not to say that science is not artistic. I see so many “sciency” stuff that feel like art to me. Perhaps, this is simply because of an artificial division between art and science that I feel has been imposed. To me, there’s a very real “art is subjective, science is objective” mindset, well, all around us. I can’t be the only one to feel this way. I keep hearing this argument that our education system kills creativity in children. Maybe that’s what happened to me? Have my creative urges been downplayed in the hopes that a more “scientific”, “logical”, and or “rational” mindset would prevail? This is making me wonder if the Vulcans in Star Trek are potentially a critique of this tendency. In any case, I want to make my project more fun, but I don’t feel like I am equipped to do so.
